[Contents](../../Contents.md)

The complicating factor here is partially generated structures where you make some changes and the system expands on what was done, providing default values and adding structures that can be inferred from what was already done. This leads to a series of interchanges, where the user provides some content and then the system generates additional content.

To start, we keep everything in one structure and each iteration creates a new, and named, version of that structure. And the first complication comes when we serialize the different versions independently and then deserialize them--we end up with full duplication of the data and memory usage grows rapidly unless we limit the number of versions being deserialized. And the uniqueness of names also suffers unless we include the name of the version when accessing a gem.

But unique names really gets complicates as a solution for accessing gems in memory when the overall data structure is partitioned and interchanges are supported for less than the entire structure. Now we need to know the interdependence of these partitions and, for a given version on one partition, what are the version names of the partitions on which it depends.

This mess was avoided in earlier systems by using path names for versioned files and by only allowing a single version to exist in memory at any given time.

I'll note that older versions of these systems used path names for locating items in memory and we only went to unique names for efficiency reasons. So I'm inclined to revert to path names for gems and drop the idea of unique names for gems rather than implementing additional complexity for an approach which may no longer have any value.

---

## Contents
[index](../../Contents.md)

Suggested reading order of topics:

- [Introduction](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Introduction.md)
- [Env](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Env.md)
- [Gems](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Gems.md)
- [Gem Local Data](../../Dropped%20Topics/Gem%20Local%20Data.md)
- [A Singular API](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/A%20Singular%20API.md)
- [Function Handles](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Function%20Handles.md)
- [Function Handles Table](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Function%20Handles%20Table.md)
- [Requirements of an Operation](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Requirements%20of%20an%20Operation.md)
- [Vector of Operations](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Vector%20of%20Operations.md)

## Introduction
[index](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Introduction.md)

