[Contents](../../Contents.md)

Tired of having to go through an index to see a topic. But instead of changing everything, I'm going to use a mixed system where the index for [Contents](../../Contents.md) remains (but bumped up a level) along with all existing indexes. But those indexes (other than Contents) will no longer be updated.

Instead, in the case of an updated topic, Context will link to the updated version of the topic. New versions of a topic then will carry either a link to the index for older versions or a prior link to the prior version of the topic.

Migration then will be incremental.

---

## Contents
[index](../../Contents.md)

Suggested reading order of topics:

- [Introduction](May-12-2022.md#Introduction)
- [Features](May-12-2022.md#Features)
- [Regenerative Systems](May-12-2022.md#Regenerative%20Systems)
- [Application Groups](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Application%20Groups.md)
- [Applications](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Applications.md)
- [Namespaces](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Namespaces.md)
- [Dependencies](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Dependencies.md)
- [Gems](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Gems.md)
- [Interchanges](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Interchanges.md)
- [Env](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Env.md)
- [A Singular API](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/A%20Singular%20API.md)
- [Function Handles](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Function%20Handles.md)
- [Function Handles Table](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Function%20Handles%20Table.md)
- [Requirements of an Operation](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Requirements%20of%20an%20Operation.md)
- [Vector of Operations](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Vector%20of%20Operations.md)

## Introduction
[index](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Introduction.md)

Knowledge structures, it seems to me, should be at the heart of any large and complex system. We need a Integrated Development System (IDE) for building and maintaining knowledge structures and for creating payloads for configuring derivative systems that make various uses of those knowledge structures.

 We are setting about to define an IDE for maintaining knowledge structures. We call it the Gems Framework.

## Features
[index](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Gems%20Framework.md)

The gems framework provides several services:

- A repository for multiple knowledge structure [Applications](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Applications.md).
- Supports the development of those knowledge structures through a regenerative process.
- Generates payloads of various forms from those application structures for use in derivative applications.
- Fully self-reflexive to support open-ended systems.

The gems framework supports multiple [Application Groups](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Application%20Groups.md) as a means of organizing the applications supported by the framework.

Each group contains multiple applications.

Application structures in turn contain multiple application versions. The latest version of the application is the one used except when regenerating an application from an older version.

Application versions contain versioned [Namespaces](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Namespaces.md). Again, only the latest version is used.

Versioned namespaces contain [Gems](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Gems.md), which are the primary structure.  

Data within a gem is organized into facets, where each facet has its own access rules and behaviors.


## Regenerative Systems
[index](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Regenerative%20Systems.md)

How is a knowledge structure developed over time? It can be developed manually, but for a large structure we need a system which will perform consistency checks, provide default data where it is needed, provide required substructures and internal linkages. In other words, everything that can be automated should be automated.

1. Generate the initial knowledge structure from a minimal set of configuration data.
2. Add and embellish on the that knowledge structure. Alternatively, revert to an earlier generated knowledge structure and modify that.
3. Regenerate a new version of the knowledge structure, performing consistency checks, adding default values, required substructures and internal linkages, etc.
4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 as required.

A regenerative system then employs a series of interchanges where a human provides input and the system rebuilds itself to be consistent with those changes. But the entire system does not need to be regenerated with each interchange. Only those parts which are dependent on the items which were changed need to be regenerated.