[Contents](../../Contents.md)

I've left behind earlier work on interchanges and instead have been focused on async processing and federations. But interchanges are more critical while async processing and federations add considerable complexity.

So I'm dropping async processing and federations. Indeed, I'm already in the process of dropping federations. Emphasis then is on interchanges as well as internal form of filsys. There are enough changes since I last worked on interchanges, like dropping most uniqueness requirements to support in-memory versioning.

---

## Gems Framework
[index](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Gems%20Framework.md)

The gems framework is a regenerative and self-reflexive system. The primary structure is called a [Gem](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Gems.md).

Data within a gem is organized into facets, where each facet has its own access rules and behaviors.

Gems are themselves organized into [Namespaces](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Namespaces.md), which are in turn partitioned into [Applications](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Applications.md) which fall into [Groups](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Application%20Groups.md).

## Applications
[index](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Applications.md)

The [Gems Framework](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Gems%20Framework.md) supports multiple applications, each of which is fully independent from all the others. Applications may be derived from other applications, but the contents of a new application are copied from other applications. Updates to an application then has no impact on any other application--they are fully decoupled.

Applications are organized into [Groups](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Application%20Groups.md) of related applications.

## Application Groups
[index](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Application%20Groups.md)

An application group is a map that contains a set of related [Applications](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Applications.md)

## Contents
[index](../../Contents.md)

Suggested reading order of topics:

- [Introduction](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Introduction.md)
- [Gems Framework](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Gems%20Framework.md)
- [Applications](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Applications.md)
- [Application Groups](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Application%20Groups.md)
- [Namespaces](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Namespaces.md)
- [Dependencies](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Dependencies.md)
- [Interchanges](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Interchanges.md)
- [Env](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Env.md)
- [Gems](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Gems.md)
- [Gem Local Data](../../Dropped%20Topics/Gem%20Local%20Data.md)
- [A Singular API](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/A%20Singular%20API.md)
- [Function Handles](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Function%20Handles.md)
- [Function Handles Table](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Function%20Handles%20Table.md)
- [Requirements of an Operation](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Requirements%20of%20an%20Operation.md)
- [Vector of Operations](../../Older%20Topic%20Indexes/Vector%20of%20Operations.md)
