[Contents](../../Topic%20Indexes/Contents.md)

---

## Introduction
[index](../../Topic%20Indexes/Introduction.md)

How does a system develop over time?

1. Generate the initial system from a minimal set of configuration data.
2. Add and embellish on the generated system. Alternatively, revert to an earlier generated system and modify that.
3. Regenerate a new version of the system, adding default values, required substructures and internal linkages.
4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 as required.

I call this a regenerative system. It gets even more interesting when the system is self-reflexive, where the meaning of various constructs within the data are also defined there and can be changed as needed. And this is what we are setting about to define. The name of this the Gems Framework.

## Gems Framework
[index](../../Topic%20Indexes/Gems%20Framework.md)

The gems framework is an asynchronous, regenerative and self-reflexive system. The primary structure is called a [Gem](../../Topic%20Indexes/Gems.md). Each active gem has its own light-weight thread.

Data within a gem is organized into facets, where each facet has its own access rules and behaviors.

Gems are themselves organized into [Namespaces](../../Topic%20Indexes/Namespaces.md), which are in turn partitioned into [Applications](../../Topic%20Indexes/Applications.md).

## Applications
[index](../../Topic%20Indexes/Applications.md)

The [Gems Framework](../../Topic%20Indexes/Gems%20Framework.md) supports multiple applications, each of which is fully independent from all the others. Applications my be derived from other applications, but the contents of a new application are copied from other applications. Updates to an application then has no impact on any other application--they are fully decoupled.

## Namespaces
[index](../../Topic%20Indexes/Namespaces.md)

A namespace is a versioned collection of gems within a single [application](../../Topic%20Indexes/Applications.md). Each gem is held by a single namespace version. When a new version of a namespace is created, new gems are created or copied from an older version of the namespace. Copies of gems and namespaces may also be made across applications.

Namespaces are organized hierarchically under an application, with each level supporting multiple versions. This hierarchical structure is used to copy groups of namespaces from one application to another.

The pathname of a namespace does not include the version ids, as pathnames are only used to reference the latest version of a namespace.

## Dependencies
[index](../../Topic%20Indexes/Dependencies.md)

[Gems](../../Topic%20Indexes/Gems.md) simply refer to each other by name. Resolving the gem from its name is quite simple when the gem and the gem it refers to are both in the same [namespaces](../../Topic%20Indexes/Namespaces.md). Otherwise the dependencies in the namespace are used.

A namespace has a list of dependencies, where each dependency is a namespace pathname, relative to the application and sans version id. To resolve the name of a gem which is not in the same namespace, the pathnames are resolved to the latest version of each namespace and the gem name is to the gem found in the resolved namespaces. (And there should be only one such gem.)

## Interchanges
[index](../../Topic%20Indexes/Interchanges.md)

A system is developed through a series of interchanges. A new version of an existing namespace is created by copying existing namespace and then the editing new version. This is done for all the namespaces that are being updated.

Then the system is regenerated. All the updated namespaces are identified, together with any namespaces which depend on them. Another version of all of these namespaces is then created and extended, adding default structures and values where none exist, adding values where they can be calculated, and adding required linkages.

## Contents
[index](../../Topic%20Indexes/Contents.md)

Suggested reading order of topics:

- [Introduction](../../Topic%20Indexes/Introduction.md)
- [Gems Framework](../../Topic%20Indexes/Gems%20Framework.md)
- [Applications](../../Topic%20Indexes/Applications.md)
- [Namespaces](../../Topic%20Indexes/Namespaces.md)
- [Dependencies](../../Topic%20Indexes/Dependencies.md)
- [Interchanges](../../Topic%20Indexes/Interchanges.md)
- [Env](../../Topic%20Indexes/Env.md)
- [Gems](../../Topic%20Indexes/Gems.md)
- [Gem Local Data](../../Topic%20Indexes/Gem%20Local%20Data.md)
- [A Singular API](../../Topic%20Indexes/A%20Singular%20API.md)
- [Function Handles](../../Topic%20Indexes/Function%20Handles.md)
- [Function Handles Table](../../Topic%20Indexes/Function%20Handles%20Table.md)
- [Requirements of an Operation](../../Topic%20Indexes/Requirements%20of%20an%20Operation.md)
- [Vector of Operations](../../Topic%20Indexes/Vector%20of%20Operations.md)
